# DIABETES-MELLITUS-PREDICTION-USING-ML-TECHNIQUES
A model that detects whether the person is diabetic or not using machine learning techniques. Here we used the Random Forest Classifier algorithm.
Diabetes is an illness caused because of high glucose level in a human body. Diabetes should not be ignored, if it is untreated then Diabetes may lead to heart related problems, kidney problem, blood pressure etc., Diabetes can be controlled if it is predicted earlier. To achieve this goal our project work will helps in early prediction of Diabetes in a human body. Machine learning techniques provide better result to predict the diabetes in a person by previous datasets which are collected from patient’s medical record. In this model we will use Machine Learning Classification and ensemble techniques on a dataset to predict diabetes. In this model we are going to check the accuracy for several machine learning algorithms and compare their accuracy and choose the best fitting algorithm with highest accuracy among these algorithms. There are several machine learning algorithms like Random Forest Classifier, K- Nearest neighbours (KNN), Support Vector Machine (SVM). But we are using Random Forest Classifier, as it gives more accuracy compared several other algorithms, that’s because it consists of multiple decision trees. On top of that, it uses randomness to enhance its accuracy and combat overfitting and gives more accuracy. We are going to apply this Random Forest Classifier on the Pima dataset and based on these previous data we are going to predict the person is diabetic or not. This project shows greater accuracy compared to several existing models and we are connecting our model to front end and it can be easily handled.
